# What Is Node.js?
### Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome’s V8 JavaScript engine or its an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library. **Simply,Node.js is a program we can use to execute JavaScript on our computers. In other words, it’s a JavaScript runtime.**
## Google Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine:
### The V8 engine is the open-source JavaScript engine that runs in Google Chrome and other Chromium-based web browsers, including Brave, Opera, and Vivaldi. It was designed with performance in mind and is responsible for compiling JavaScript directly to native machine code that your computer can execute.
# What is npm?
### npm is the default package manager for the JavaScript runtime environment Node.js. It consists of a command line client, also called npm, and an online database of public and paid-for private packages, called the npm registry. The registry is accessed via the client, and the available packages can be browsed and searched via the npm website. The package manager and the registry are managed by npm, Inc.
# What Is Node.js Used For?
###  Node.js lets developers use JavaScript to write command line tools and for server-side scripting—running scripts server-side to produce dynamic web page content before the page is sent to the user's web browser. Consequently, Node.js represents a "JavaScript everywhere" paradigm, unifying web-application development around a single programming language, rather than different languages for server-side and client-side scripts.**Simply,Node.js Lets Us Run JavaScript on the Server.**
# What Are the Advantages of Node.js?
### Aside from speed and scalability, an often-touted advantage of using JavaScript on a web server — as well as in the browser — is that your brain no longer needs to switch modes. You can do everything in the same language, which, as a developer, makes you more productive . 
### Another of Node’s big pluses is that it speaks JSON. JSON is probably the most important data exchange format on the Web, and the lingua franca for interacting with object databases . JSON is ideally suited for consumption by a JavaScript program, meaning that when you’re working with Node, data can flow neatly between layers without the need for reformatting. You can have one syntax from browser to server to database.
### Finally, JavaScript is ubiquitous: most of us are familiar with JavaScript, or have used it at some point. This means that transitioning to Node development is potentially easier than to other server-side languages.
# _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

# 6 Reasons for Pair Programming
### pair programming commonly involves two roles: the Driver and the Navigator.
### The Driver is the programmer who is typing and the only one whose hands are on the keyboard. Handling the “mechanics” of coding, the Driver manages the text editor, switching files, version control, and—of course writing—code.
### The Navigator uses their words to guide the Driver but does not provide any direct input to the computer. The Navigator thinks about the big picture, what comes next, how an algorithm might be converted in to code, while scanning for typos or bugs.
### Pair programming touches on all four skills: developers explain out loud what the code should do, listen to others’ guidance, read code that others have written, and write code themselves.
#### 1. Greater efficiency :In the long-run, it’s often actually more efficient than two people working on separate features. When coming up with ideas and discussing solutions out loud, two programmers may come to a solution faster than one programmer on their own. Also, when the pair is stuck, both programmers can research the problem and reach a solution faster
#### 2. Engaged collaboration :When two programmers focus on the same code, the experience is more engaging and both programmers are more focused than if they were working alone. It is harder to procrastinate or get off track when someone else is relying on you to complete the work.
#### 3. Learning from fellow students :The developers in a pairing have different skill sets. If one programmer is more experienced in a certain skill, they can teach a student who is less familiar with that area. The less experienced developer benefits from the experienced developer’s knowledge and guidance, and the latter benefits from explaining the topic in their own words
#### 4. Social skills :Pair programming not only improves programming skills, but can also help programmers develop their interpersonal skills.
#### 5. Job interview readiness :For most roles, the ability to work with and learn from others and stellar communication skills are as (or more!) important to a company than specific technical skills. Pair programming strengthens all of those skills.


#### 6. Work environment readiness :Many companies that utilize pair programing expect to train fresh hires from CS-degree programs on how they operate to actually deliver a product.